hello everyone welcome to the Monday
September 16th
ipfs project operations call we are
gonna run through our things and then
also just quickly look back at our cue
tree okay ours because we are doing
scoring this week on all of ours um let
me just share the screen so they can see
it alright um Steven and Steven make me
Jay it's his birthday happy birthday
Steven on that beautiful mountain that
you're on hopefully you get Wi-Fi for
later calls today you should watch this
recording so you can see us wishing a
happy birthday we would sing but you're
not here so we're singing in spirit um
but he he mentioned that um that we're
gonna be doing another patch release for
go ipfs bo dot 4.23
um because go 1.13 one yeah
the 1.13 and created some build issues
so we're gonna resolve that this is
another khat release and we're still
working on finalizing all the testing it
needed to feel super-confident about
some larger improvements slated for ODOT
5.0 our next minor release and there is
an issue so feel free to go and comment
on that issue about the exact set of
tests using our new tested and if
testing in for us set up to ensure that
the set of improvements we want to make
which includes things to the DHT
includes some of the bit swap
improvements that have been happening in
other groups means IP NS improvements
that all of those are highly tested so
that we can feel really confident the
third only going to make the glide view
of us um build and network better um I
know that there's also a je s IP less
release that's in in flight right now I
believe that started last week and it's
had it entered V kind of three week
release cycle that is now common
cross-eyed confess to JFS I'm giving us
a snaps for meeting that okay are quite
effectively and I don't know the exact
issue on that but anyone who's closer
feel free to pipe up otherwise I
probably just heads-up but there there
is a JSI he must release in flights as
well thank you
you
thank you anything to add to my very
short announcement about it
sure we started the the release process
you can track it on the issue I put put
there and we also include now the
interrupt tests on our CI to make sure
everything works perfectly yeah we added
some new commands to age year so we can
kind of have a release branch and the
world of things it is there and not walk
master yeah that's basically it that's
very exciting thank you awesome
Connie you want to give a quick
collaborations update yes can you hear
me okay yeah just fine okay fantastic so
I have two quick things one is that the
e NS 8 DNS plugin is officially listed
and the core DNS directory so you can go
to their site right now and look at
external plugins and grab it from there
and you can use it today so that's
that's great news the other thing is
that we've been making lots of progress
through the pipeline and have been kind
of processing the backlog of both
current perspective and completed
collaborations through its and it's
working well and we should have a
meeting that or a I guess in first and
announcements of a reasonably completed
process pretty some so you'll they'll
all be able to jump in take a look
acid sounds great
alright community um Terry took a pass
at an awesome blog post for some of the
IP fest camp content that is ready for
for sharing out with the wider community
this is a core courses she put together
a blog post for that and also and has
some useful connections with the proto
school lessons that relate and
interviews and sci-fi fare interviews
and keynotes and both I think can be
bundled together into a single indexing
post that shares them out to the
community they're all awesome I was like
stared at the content a little bit um
really washed it on like three X speed
but this also needs a post and then and
we're done I think with with the video
content coming out of ipfs camp in terms
of making sure that community has access
to it I definitely think there's more we
can do here in terms of organizing it to
to make it super accessible to folks but
in terms of from a community comes
perspective it will it'll all be out
there and indexed in some blog post or
another so that I believe is the
outstanding one and that includes the
Sakai care includes interviews with with
birdie with brave um I believe there's a
few others Janice Yanis heard of concent
one a couple other places like that um
it's super cool they're gonna be really
excited it's like a hand oh yeah just
FYI we do have an open issue in the docs
group about the best way to incorporate
the core course contents into the
overall Docs that's going to be part of
the effort that we're doing with the
card sort for the navigation system so
so that will be incorporated soon I
don't have a timeline but just just so
that you all know that we are aware of
that and trying to figure out the best
way to fit that into both our existing
content structure and and what we want
to do with it now
structure con forward nice
it'll be snazzy now they aren't it's
pretty good in terms of I watched at
least one of the courses and the audio
is pretty decent you do get this kind of
like someone is talking towards
microphone and then they're talking back
at the microphone but it's still you can
follow everything and it does it does a
really good job capturing like the flow
and the visuals and all of that stuff
and so I think they're awesome I think
people should totally use them to do on
board on all pieces I will be catching
up on the electives I missed these you
couldn't be in two places at once
snazzy cool yeah and then I just I have
like my PFS alert and I spent a little
bit of the weekend managing like just
arbitrary columns for things on the
Internet's but it's fine and cool lower
priority projects and maintenance
um we have a Henry from the clone
mm well he's drafted a an awesome blog
post on ODOT 9.2 my confess desktops
most recent release it is like a great
snapshot back in time as well of like
the progression the desktop has taken
over time and the nice features it's
added since then if I if I find a link
to an I'll stick it in here as well but
it's in the blog Rico and it's super
cool and desktop has a new update so
everyone should update desktop as well I
found that every time a desktop lets you
update it turns off running desktop and
I look and we go crap I'm not running
desktop right now no wonder like
communion has fewer peers than normal I
don't think that there are any other
mean focus things here other than
they're working on spinning up testing
or for various projects we maintain as
well to make sure that we can maintain
them thoroughly and not introduce any
bugs alright
daveed research tastic tell us about all
the cool stuff cool so last week has
been pretty busy we kicked off and I'm
just describing like a bunch of open
problems across ipfs channel a peer to
peer you can see I didn't have the time
to link here the pull requests into this
document but if you open that swing that
Molly just open you'll see links to
those pull requests and so an open
problem statement goes from the
description of the problem what is
possible today on I keep ethical systems
it's also like great documentation when
people asked about to do mutable data
and then we tell them happiness and yeah
they kind of I get a little bit to us
but of course like in all these
solutions they're always like some
shortcomings and so an open problem
statement is both the open problem that
we still need to solve and a definition
of what is the criteria to succeed and
like complete this problem but at the
same time a survey or like what is
possible within the idea vesicle system
and what is possible outside of a
classical system so this is kind of like
a GRU
intro like welcome package for
researchers to help and like join us and
like solving these problems and we hope
to then match this work to like well
just like leveraging the work that the
deck superstructure team is doing by
providing attach to these open problems
also some tests where people can see I
for example when we talk about
scalability the fact they can run
themselves on their machine some some
simulations so that then they have like
a platform to even like do improvements
and then tests to see if they have
security or not I see a hand from Mali
so we'll go ahead is that is the aim or
or objective to make make these things
open so that anyone in the community can
see these open problems and contribute
to them and comment on them or is it 20
to stay prime very well absolutely so
actually I opened today if you'll click
the pull request they are on the IP path
slash research so this is just a link to
track it when you think that the request
is actually open it has such research
and so the plan and like piece also
touches on cue for OPR is the plan is
like to complete this open problem
statement so I can mount them say excuse
the thing that we still need to solve
here's the state of the art in the FS
ecosystem here is a set of the audit we
know from the rest of the world here's
what you can try to do I hear some ideas
but I come help us solve them and then
we want to also create RFPs
like like sponsor people to work with us
on corporations and be more proactive
about it's like going to academic
conference is going to research
conferences like we are going next week
or even going to labs from you knees
like use some of the relationships that
we have already to like really
foster some some corporations that we
only never I still make progress here
and so yeah you are welcome to to review
problem statements
let us know if they are descriptive
enough if they are informative enough
some of these are still in the drafts
free so you see like the pull request is
great because they are still very very
bratty they are one that is green is of
course the one that like can be read
from the scene
but I could still more improvements to
be made and so this is the a plate and
open problems yeah I said there the they
are all info requests so they haven't
immersion so next week we have a
workshop so I beep s absolutely do you
have a question right now already me to
answer or pleasure okay
sincerely so next week the deal between
active s PL research and liquor pier is
going to the ACM ICN so a scenery ICN is
the internet centric networking which it
might seems correctly no I brain just
playing Internet centric networking yeah
hi I'm saying this correctly and so we
are going to believe for two hours and
out for the community there and so we
are going to reuse materials from a
diverse camp and expand them to adjust
to this audience so this is a very like
experience audience like all of them are
network researchers for two plus years
or maybe some of them are like like the
mostly the most known network
researchers like with a lot of like
publications and so we want to use that
to kind of like bring them into the IP
personally picture system show them how
reach the stacking building is how easy
it is to hack with it and also invite
them to like again tackle some of these
open problems with us and see like what
areas of interest you are interested for
interesting for that so then we have the
next thing which is a research intensive
workshop so this is another workshop
this is one is internal so this is a
workshop that was the idea was conceived
back in August and
that will happen in Berlin around what
pre-summit and it's a workshop where
it's kind of like the research enabling
the project teams by doing the legwork
or like serving the state-of-the-art
gathering all the ideas and in my
cutting a three day intensive thing
where we do actual protocol design so
this is not a research intensive
workshop to explore like future future
future work it's actually workshop
designed to tackle some of these like
most pressing issues and so you can see
here a list of selected topics like we
had a bunch of topics that were gathered
from the two project teams and then
after some prioritization and we
condense the Swiss to like four four
topics until for the next month there
will be some work preparing the content
for this workshop but the idea is to
have exact very fast training sessions
and then design discussions and then
spec writing that then can be
implemented on a protocol so yeah there
is that and I guess I could be related
there's also going to be a research PM
summit of step cone and this is like the
whole protocol ABS research all the
projects and which means like there's
actually a lot of events happening on
there's a workshop next week there is
the like there is DEFCON and then there
is the PM summit and there is the
workshop intensive - there will be a lot
of troubling so yeah like a lot of
exciting things
[Music]
questions is any I know this stuff is
early and like you've drafted a ton of
stuff just since our last meeting and
this is the state where if there's
someone who's asking about doing
research in the penis pee space we could
point them at some of these open
research problems or the IVFs slash
research repo as as a place to like at
least get started with the things that
we are thinking about and think are
important or is it hey maybe hold off
for another week or something things
will be in a better state done
yeah like that's an excellent question
and it's an answer Aki's it depends so
if it's someone like looking for funding
right now we still haven't formulated
like what is going to be the RSP model
or even like how much funding we will
ask to invest on like exploring these
problems through collaborations so
that's something that we are we're
trying to get that information as soon
as possible
if people are just like looking for
interesting problems to work on
absolutely Rob them our way like we're
like the the open problems other like
some of them are more fleshed out than
others but I they still planted seeds
necessarily and they point to a lot of
conversation that we have had in the
last four years about like this specific
open problem and so if they are like
excited about that like it's very quick
you know a 15 20 minute conversation
with them to like reel them up and get
them up to speed and so yeah if you are
super excited to work on these things
absolutely if they are like looking for
funding first like maybe give us a
couple more weeks just like to get that
settled so that we when we talk with
them we actually have a proper answer
rather than I'm not sure any other
questions I don't see everyone's faces
right let me see if there's more hands
okay now I see everyone's faces but any
other any other updates or questions
nope everything just like a question
such a bit and it's for a caddy okay I
know you gave me an update to email
about like still working on the club
side point and I just want to know if
there is any suggestion about like so
given that there is a potential partner
waiting is there kind of like a template
message to say we are waiting you know I
go or lucky but given that we you know
what I mean like should I say something
silent should I brought them to you like
what is the best next step to make sure
that we don't cool down that
relationship how maybe a connection is
not good today so maybe
I can just ask this to Joe and if you
die I just suggest painting the collab
email it probably worth like just having
a document did in that that channel I
know that you've documented in the past
the probably worth the thread and
refreshing it doesn't it send in
people's heads okay yeah so there's like
some emails going back and forth but but
I guess I can make sure it's on the club
knowing which house it also that it gets
strike techno a good idea thank you yeah
perfect
um alright we are we have reached end of
the quarter we're missing some people
that we would hopefully have to do
collaborating but for the ones of us
that are here reminder that we we need
to get these done by end of week and so
now is the time to do to do our grades
the more the more precise using the
notes on grading section to specify like
exactly what point we got to is super
useful and let's try not to over inflate
I was we said this was like point nine
and yet we're still working on at this
corner like are grading can sometimes
get a little over off to mistake for for
how much we're actually done with
something at the end of the quarter I
think we got like a ODOT nine on UNIX
fsv two in q1 and like we definitely
haven't launched he makes a mess p2 so
reminder to to specify exactly kind of
what these mean for us yeah the last ten
percent takes 90 percent the aim here is
like let's try and be precise and try
and remind her to us refresh ourselves
on writing really precise ok ours the
document but we did okay we definitely
we definitely shipped at least one
poster month um but I also ping people
directly into this document to help
respond to things which would be snazzy
any-any like comments on okay our
related stuff or looking forward into
next quarters okay are related things
you know our remaining two minutes
well I'm stop sharing so I can see my
own space
everyone good any other things but
people want to add share questions
what are the things that we are planning
to demo at that fund like we have acne
task force designed for watching
something I've done I feel like anyone
who watches our recordings regularly it
gets to be on the inside in the in the
loop surprise announcement that's
happening yet I'd upon the aim is to
talk about collab work that we've been
doing it's in a pretty exciting space a
lot of progress is done you need both
sprays in our conversations with opera
and so the hope is that if we if we're
able to solidify those things and like
the next week and a half and then it
will and also the ENS work which is like
not browsers specifically but it's
related you know and so talking about
those those three collabs and and and
sharing kind of this bigger moment to
talk about them with the community to
partner with the people who have been
doing all of this kind of you know work
along the borders of various
organizations to help make this happen
is super exciting and also just like
that level of how easy it is to use
within browsers is a big deal and
something that people need to know it
exists so that they can make use of it
and start building things that utilize
you know direct embedded companion with
TCP and WebSockets which would be you
know there are things you can do on top
of that in brave that which you get some
people experimenting with by sharing it
out more so that's that's the objective
is to share that we also on the the
local IP MS community
I believe our Japan photo school chapter
organizer is helping organize to ipfs
meetups around Def Con so there's one
the Sunday before Def Con you know Sokka
and then there's one the Saturday after
Def Con in Tokyo and so I'm kind of
is aimed a little bit more of the people
who are in town for Def Con and the
other one is a little bit more aimed at
the the local developer community that
doesn't know much about IPS yet but
would like to learn more and maybe you
know doesn't have any visibility into
Def Con they're just you know haven't
had a chance to to go to in ipfs Meetup
because there hasn't been one I said I
think yous gonna be the first to I PMS
meetups that I know of in Japan tell me
if I'm wrong but that's gonna be super
cool and exciting and hopefully can
build from there into a wider community
so that's what I know that is super
super cool yeah like both things are
very exciting for for the first one like
if there is any way around
communications from Mike writing a blog
post it explains all those updates to
actually having our team or the
community just tweet the routes that
those experiments right it might be a
good time to showcase like all those
brave integration experiments for
situation experiments and I just have
kind of like scheduled tweets just to go
out so that people like like if we use
that window of attention because after
everyone's imagination imagination and
school second
I said you're preaching to the choir
giving people the tools through which to
uh to better promote the exciting work
they're working on absolutely awesome
and so for the world of school I was
going to ask and so what we use in the
past mediacom like yeah it is a good
platform for I just broadcasting and
saying hey I give me that is happening
we got a very good conversation yeah I
don't know if it's the best thing for
Japan or not but like worth checking if
they are using it or if we can just okay
we have a pro account so we can just
fight keep right there the Osaka and
Tokyo meetups like connect help for
those regions for free yeah it's a great
way to attract track in
well together I think masa who's the
Japan chapter organizer yeah he
definitely recommended Eventbrite for
going to get kind of more okay an
international developer audience
Eventbrite is good but for more local
people you recommend something compacts
I'm not familiar with but seemingly is
the more local Japan kind of event
notification system and a couple of
other things related to Def Con and just
events in Osaka and stuff like that
which should post on and so I think that
masa mostly gonna handle that as the
lead organizer for 3ds but definitely
good to know that we can give him
support on setting up an account his
that'll be useful times okay exciting
well we're a little bit late so nice
weekly call so we should we should hop
over but thank you all and have a
wonderful horse due Monday